>> Kyle: All right let's
talk about composition.
We briefly mentioned this one
earlier as well when we're talking
about point free let's
dig into composition.
Let's understand the idea of one
function's output becoming the input
to another function.
Here's an example, I've got three numerary
functions, a minus2, a triple and
an increment.
And they do exactly what you would expect,
minus2 subtracts two, triple triples it,
increment increments by one.
On line six,
I'm going to call increment with four,
because that's my base shipping
rate that I'm going to start with.
Or that's one of my base inputs for
calculating a shipping rate.
And then that gives me
a temporary variable.
And then I'm going to pass that value
line seven into the triple function.
So I went from four to five and
then I passed five into triple.
Which triples it, that becomes 15.
And I save that into temp.
And finally, I pass that 15 value
into the minus2 function line eight.
And that gives me the end result which
would have been my shipping rate
being added to the total
cost of this product.
Okay, this is a scenario that we're going
to use over the next several slides
to try to illustrate
the idea of composition.
And what you need to get out of this, the
take away that you should be looking for
is becoming familiar enough with this
pattern that you spot when one function
call is producing an output that is then
later routed to another function call.
It is often the case that it'll end
up in some kind of variable and
then that variable gets passed.
Sometimes you'll see it literally
written with a nested like
one call inside of another.
But more often you'll see
them assigned to variables,
sometimes things like temporary
variables like you see here.
And you want to get to the point where
you can recognize [SOUND] that's
a composition.
Okay?
That's the take away.
That's the final summary.
Okay?
So what I'm going to do to illustrate
composition for you, is I'm going to
ask you to switch your brain between the
code scenario that we're looking at here.
And I'm gonna ask you to look at
a metaphor that I'm going to use
to describe it, okay?
As we talk about this metaphor,
the first step that I want to
address is this idea of abstraction.
How many of you have heard
that term before, abstraction?
Okay?
Abstraction is one of those terms
that is thrown around in programming.
And nobody really can pinpoint and
say definitely,
this is what I mean by abstraction.
It seems to have lots of different
meanings in lots of different places.
But I want to talk about the original
idea behind abstraction.
The original idea behind
abstraction is that you have two or
more things in say a piece of code
that are intertwined together.
We could look at line six, seven and
eight, and we could say that there
are two distinct concepts happening here.
And they're interwoven.
One of the concept is that we're
calculating a shipping rate and one of
the concepts is we're adding that shipping
rate to the base total for this order.
Those are two distinct concerns, but
in this particular piece of code
they're wrapped up together.
Okay?
The initial original idea
of abstraction was to tease
apart two things which were
otherwise intertwined together.
To tease those two things apart so
that they are separate.
And by way of separation we insert
in between them a semantic boundary.
That allows us not to hide one or
the other.
That's what a lot of people think
abstraction is about hiding.
It's not about hiding,
it's about separating.
Abstraction is saying take these two
things, separate them so that I can
look at this thing and understand it or
look at this thing and understand it.
Without, while looking at this thing,
having to worry about this one, or
vice versa.
By separating them, we make them easier
to understand, easier to analyze.
So how would we abstract lines six,
seven, and eight.
Not hide things, but
rather separate things.
That's what I want you to keep in the back
of your minds as we go throughout this
discussion.
Okay?
So, the metaphor I'm going to use and
we're going to be mentally
jumping back and forth.
So, hopefully you've had your caffeine,
hopefully you're ready to mentally
jump back and
forth between these two scenarios.
For this scenario,
I'm gonna ask you to play as if you
are an engineer at a candy factory.
Okay?
And at the candy factory you have these
machine setups like you see here.
You got these machines with
conveyor belts in between them,
where they produce the candy step by
step by step down the assembly line.
Okay?
So on the far right here,
we see a machine that, you see my great
art skills, I'm a pretty good artist here.
You see this machine that
takes melted chocolate,
you pour in the melted chocolate, and
what comes out on the bottom is these
cooled blocks of chocolate, okay?
That's what machine one does.
Those cooled blocks of chocolate rumble
down the conveyor belt to the left,
they go to the next machine whose job is
to chop it up into tiny little pieces.
And so those tiny little pieces
are coming out of that machine.
They rumble down another conveyor belt and
they fall into the third machine,
whose job is to wrap them up
in the nice candy wrappers.
And those roll along to the next
machine which packages and so on, okay.
So in this candy factory, we got a couple
of these contraptions, if you will.
These machines set up on the factory
floor and everything's going well.
You're the engineer who's responsible for
managing all these machines.
One day the CEO,
the owner of this, president or
whatever of this candy factory
comes to you and says, hey,
you've been doing a really great job,
but we've got a little bit of a problem.
And I wanna see if you can think
about how we could fix this problem?
Okay?
Because he says, you know,
the problem that we have is that our
competitors are producing a lot more
chocolate more quickly than we are.
Like they're producing three or four times
as much chocolate every day as we are.
And we're losing to them and
we got to figure out a way to catch up.
We need some way to catch up.
So, the boss is basically saying,
can you figure out some way for
us to make more chocolates.
Now you know that these machines can't be
sped up, we can't make them run faster.
So the only way to make more
chocolates is to have more machines.
We're going to have more of these setup.
And the problem is we don't
have room on the factory floor.
They are taking up so much space.
We only got a couple, we've only got room
for a couple of these in the factory.
So you begin to roll round at
the back of your head thinking
how could I make more room
on the factory floor for
more of these machines so
that I can make more candy.
We could keep up with our competitor.
That's what you're going to be thinking
as an engineer at this candy factory.
Now I want to press
pause on that scenario.
And I want us to go back to that code
snippet that we were just looking at.
Remember the code snippet where I
had those temp variables, okay.
Those temp variables are kind
of cluttering things up and
they're not really benefiting
us anywhere very much.
And so we think you know what let's
just get rid of the temp variables and
let's just have each function call
nested inside of another function call.
Call increment four and then pass that to
triple and pass that to minus2 and then,
bam, we've calculated the shipping rate.
Anybody every done this before?
Have you ever nested function
calls like that before?
Okay.
So whether you knew it or not,
you were doing composition.
That's a function composition.
Taking the output of one function,
making it the input of another function.
We got rid of those nasty,
ugly temp variables that were taking
up too much space in our program.
You with me?
And we've cleaned up the code.
>> Kyle: Let's go back
to the candy factory.
You're the engineer and
you've been thinking to yourself,
you know, I think what we ought to do.
I think the big problem is
that those conveyor belts
are taking up too much space.
So you get this brilliant idea one day.
You say, what if I just took
out all the conveyor belts, and
what if I just stack the machines
right on top of each other?
And I've got one machine at the very top
where we'll be pouring the chocolate,
the chocolate falls out of that
machine directly into the next one.
It falls out of that machine directly
into the next one and so on and
bam, problem solved.
Because now I can install many,
many more of these on the factory floor
because I got rid of all that unnecessary
clutter of all those conveyor belts,
all those temporary variables.
You with me?
So you install this solution
in the candy factory.
And all of the sudden the factory
starts producing more candy and
everybody seems happy and the boss slaps
you on the back and says great job.
Things go well for six months.
And then one day the boss comes to you and
says, hey we've got another problem.
I need to see if you can try to solve for
us.
We like the fact that we're
able to produce more candy.
But one of the problems with this
new solution that you came up with,
our factory, the line workers,
they've been complaining because
these machines being stacked
on top of each other.
It's very cluttered.
There's wires all over the place and they
have to remember to push the button at
exactly the right time and there's too
many buttons to push and too many wires.
Is there some way that you could
just make a single machine
that they pour in the chocolate and
out comes the wrapped candy?
That's what the boss says.
Right?
You know because bosses they don't
think in terms of reality and they just
say, you engineer, go make it happen.
Okay?
So they're basically asking you to invent
some kind of machine
that does it all in one.
Takes the cool chocolate, I mean,
the melted chocolate at the top and
spits out wrapped candies.
Make it easier for
all the factory workers.
And you're thinking to yourself,
well, even if I could do that, it would
be difficult for me to maintain it.
Each of those individual steps and pieces.
I'm going to have to have some way
to access what's going on, right?
So this is what's rolling around
in the back of your head.
You're the engineer,
you're trying to figure this stuff out.
We have the same problem
back in our code base.
Which is that we've got the place where
we're calculating our shipping and
then we've got the place where
we're adding that to the total.
And these two things are all wired up.
It's hard to reason about
each one independently.
So you think to yourself, I know I'm
good engineer I know what I need to do.
What I need to do is write a function.
Make a function called shippingRate.
Which does that work.
It does minus2, triple, and increment.
It takes in the value.
And now look at line 12.
Line 12 is much cleaner,
because line 12 has semantically
separated the two concerns.
Line six is where we calculate how to do.
Where we say how to do
the shipping rate calculation.
And line 12 is where we
say what to do with it.
Which is to add it into the order total.
This is called an abstraction.
And the semantic boundary that we
inserted is the function name.
The function named shippingRate is
the semantic boundary between how to
compute the shipping rate and
what to do with the shipping rate.
>> Kyle: Those are the two separate
concerns that previously were all
intertwined together.
But because we made a function,
now they're nicely semantically separated.